blog: "What's new in Svelte" May newsletter (#469)
sveltejs/sites: sites/svelte.dev/content/blog/2023-05-01-whats-new-in-svelte-may-2023.md

---
title: "What's new in Svelte: May 2023"
description: "New Ambassadors, a new ESLint plugin and a whole bunch of SvelteHack submissions"
author: Dani Sandoval
authorURL: https://dreamindani.com
---

Before we dive into the updates, there's a few announcements worth mentioning at the top:

## New Svelte Ambassadors
Regular features of this newsletter and all-around great content creators for Svelte [JoyOfCode](https://www.youtube.com/@JoyofCodeDev) and [HuntaByte](https://www.youtube.com/@Huntabyte) have been appointed as Svelte Ambassadors. Ambassadors are people who are well known for their helpfulness and contributions and for upholding Svelte’s reputation as a friendly, welcoming community, and we’re deeply grateful for their involvement!

## SvelteHack winners will be announced May 6th

> In a just a few days, we'll find out who won [SvelteHack](https://hack.sveltesociety.dev/) - the Svelte Hackathon that took place between February 17th and April 17th. Keep an eye on the [Svelte Society socials](https://sveltesociety.dev/) to see if your favorite project was chosen 👀

Reviewer: @kevmodrome won't they be announced at svelte summit? I think we should mention the conference here.

Reviewer 2: yes, that's the plan

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a just a few days, we'll find out who won [SvelteHack](https://hack.sveltesociety.dev/) - the Svelte Hackathon that took place between February 17th and April 17th. Tune in to [Svelte Summit](https://www.sveltesummit.com/) on May 6th to see if your favorite project was chosen 👀
```

Lots of submissions to the hackathon are featured in this month's showcase... but first, let's see what's new!

## What's new in Svelte
- `style` blocks now support CSS `@container` queries (**3.58.0**)
- `bind:innerText` is now available for `contenteditable` elements (**3.58.0**)
- A new accessability warning, `a11y-interactive-supports-focus` will now warn when interactive elements are not focusable (**3.58.0**)

For all the changes to the Svelte compiler, including unreleased changes, check out the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

## What's new in SvelteKit
- When hot module reloading (HMR) is enabled, the page will reload after an error is fixed (**1.14.0**, [#9497](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/9497))

> - Two pages generated into the same page can now be loaded simultaneously in "embedded" mode (**1.15.7**, [#9610](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/9610))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Two apps loaded into the same html page can now be loaded simultaneously in "embedded" mode (**1.15.7**, [#9610](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/9610))
```

- Vite's compilation will now log warnings for packages that use the `svelte` field to resolve Svelte files differently than standard Vite resolve (**vite-plugin-svelte@2.1.0**, **kit@1.15.8**)

## What's new in Language Tools
- Support for `<svelte:document>` ([#1958](https://github.com/sveltejs/language-tools/pull/1958)) and intellisense report for new bindings ([#1957](https://github.com/sveltejs/language-tools/pull/1957)) (**107.3.0**)
- The new fix-all menu option for the "Quick fix..." makes it easy to "Add all missing imports" and other detected errors (**107.3.0**, [#1939](https://github.com/sveltejs/language-tools/pull/1939))

> - The official [ESLint plugin](https://github.com/sveltejs/eslint-plugin-svelte) has landed 🎉 Previous support for Svelte in ESLint did not handle the template AST well, resulting in false positive/negatives and a high barrier to custom ESLint rules. This new official version is based on [ota-meshi](https://github.com/ota-meshi)'s [svelte-eslint-parser](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte-eslint-parser) and is ready for prime time. Try it out and [share your feedback](https://github.com/sveltejs/eslint-plugin-svelte/issues)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We have a new and better official [ESLint plugin](https://github.com/sveltejs/eslint-plugin-svelte)! Previous support for Svelte in ESLint did not handle the template AST well, resulting in false positive/negatives and a high barrier to custom ESLint rules. This new official version is based on [ota-meshi](https://github.com/ota-meshi)'s [svelte-eslint-parser](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte-eslint-parser) and is ready for prime time. Try it out and [share your feedback](https://github.com/sveltejs/eslint-plugin-svelte/issues)!
```

- [Code Solving](https://code-svelte.vercel.app/) teaches how to solve problems with code
- [Make Bookmarklets](https://make-bookmarklets.com/) is a quick way to create JavaScript bookmarklets with linting, intellisense and auto-minification
- [GeniePM](https://genie.pm) is an AI tool to help Product Managers write user stories and requirements
- [Bitesized News](https://bitesized.news/) is an AI that delivers news digests and responds to questions via chat
- [Open Tunings](https://www.open-tunings.com/) is a place to explore alternative guitar tunings without having to retune your guitar
- [BlinkSMS](https://blinksms.se/#) is a text alert tool for Stockholm Student Housing to help with booking laundry times
- [Dev Links](https://github.com/killswitchh/dev-links) helps dev showcase multiple links in a single place - similar to Linktree and Kofi
- [Audiogest](https://audiogest.app/) is a tool to convert speech to text & summarize any audio
- [MineSweep](https://alecames.com/minesweep) is a rendition of Minesweeper built with Svelte and JavaScript
- [Biolytics](https://biolytics.app/) lets you import your lab tests to see all your lab tests in one place

> - [Zero share](https://github.com/ntsd/zero-share) is a secure P2P file sharing using WebRTC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Zero share](https://github.com/ntsd/zero-share) is a secure P2P file sharing using WebRTC
- [Svelte lab](https://www.sveltelab.dev/) is a sandbox for creating and sharing SvelteKit projects
```

---
title: "What's new in Svelte: May 2023"
description: "TBD"
author: Dani Sandoval
authorURL: https://dreamindani.com
---

> TBD... Svelte Hackathon winner goes here too.

Reviewer 3: These won't be annunced until May 6th and it'll be a segment on svelte summit. maybe put a promotion for that here instead? cc @kevmodrome

Author: perfect. I'll make this a mention of the forthcoming announcement, then :)

> 

Reviewer 4: ESLint PR is merged. So I wrote some sentences.
I who is shameless put this on the top of the article, but is this the right place?
And I'm happy if someone modifies my English🙏

```suggestion
## New official ESLint plugin is landed 🚀

We're happy to announce that we have a new official [ESLint plugin](https://github.com/sveltejs/eslint-plugin-svelte)🎉 

Our existing ESLint plugin [eslint-plugin-svelte3](https://github.com/sveltejs/eslint-plugin-svelte3) has supported Svelte's development for a long time.
However, it does not handle the AST of the template well, which results in false positives/negatives and makes it very difficult to create custom ESLint rules. To solve this issue, [ota-meshi](https://github.com/ota-meshi) developed [svelte-eslint-parser](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte-eslint-parser) and [eslint-plugin-svelte](https://github.com/sveltejs/eslint-plugin-svelte) which has proven to be more reliable and successful. The Svelte team therefore decided to switch the official plugin to [eslint-plugin-svelte](https://github.com/sveltejs/eslint-plugin-svelte).

Please try the new plugin! And we are waiting for your feedback!
```

## What's new in Svelte
- `style` blocks now support CSS `@container` queries (**3.58.0**)
- `bind:innerText` is now available for `contenteditable` elements (**3.58.0**)
- A new accessability warning, `a11y-interactive-supports-focus` will now warn when interactive elements are not focusable (**3.58.0**)

For all the changes to the Svelte compiler, including unreleased changes, check out the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

## What's new in SvelteKit
- When hot module reloading (HMR) is enabled, the page will reload after an error is fixed (**1.14.0**, [#9497](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/9497))
- Two pages generated into the same page can now be loaded simultaneously in "embedded" mode (**1.15.7**, [#9610](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/9610))

> 

Reviewer 2: there's a new release of `vite-plugin-svelte` this month: https://github.com/sveltejs/vite-plugin-svelte/blob/main/packages/vite-plugin-svelte/CHANGELOG.md#210

it's got a new feature that logs warnings for packages that aren't setup correctly. might be worth mentioning it so that people are aware that will be happening

## What's new in Language Tools
- Support for `<svelte:document>` ([#1958](https://github.com/sveltejs/language-tools/pull/1958)) and intellisense report for new bindings ([#1957](https://github.com/sveltejs/language-tools/pull/1957)) (**107.3.0**)
- The new fix-all menu option for the "Quick fix..." makes it easy to "Add all missing imports" and other detected errors (**107.3.0**, [#1939](https://github.com/sveltejs/language-tools/pull/1939))

> ---

Reviewer: We should definitely add that, but needs more enthusiasm 😄

> ---

Author: I might just pull it into the intro instead. Great call!

> ---

Reviewer 3: go all out, hype it. i wasn't sure how to phrase it to fit in

- [SwiftMarket](https://github.com/SwiftMarket/swiftmarket-sveltekit) is an E-Commerce solution built with SvelteKit, Pocketbase as a database and Stripe for payments
- [Svelegante](https://www.npmjs.com/package/svelegante) is a Classy writable store for Svelte
- [Table Generator](https://www.table-generator.de/) lets you create, design and customize your own tables tables online using a graphical editor
- [Svelte Animated Headline](https://www.npmjs.com/package/svelte-animated-headline) is an animated headline component that can grab attention in an informative way
- [SvelteKit Music App Example](https://github.com/tguelcan/music) demonstrates how to connect and process data as well as some practical examples of how to develop frontend components with TailwindCSS
- [Socio](https://www.npmjs.com/package/socio) is a WebSocket Real-Time Communication (RTC) API framework to connect your front-end logic to a back-end database reactively
- [Flowbite Svelte](https://flowbite-svelte.com/) is an official Flowbite component library for Svelte

> - [Wondergraph](https://wundergraph.com/blog/introducing_svelte_query_client), a backend for frontend framework, just released their Svelte Query client

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Wundergraph](https://wundergraph.com/blog/introducing_svelte_query_client), a backend for frontend framework, just released their Svelte Query client
```
